Avoid this dangerously windy Wyoming highway at all costs on your next road trip	https://matadornetwork.com/read/youll-want-avoid-dangerously-windy-wyoming-highway-costs-next-road-trip/	"If you ever decide to take a road trip across the United States, Wyoming has some great sights to see. But head down the wrong interstate at the wrong time of year, and the decision could have drastic consequences. The TikTok account American Road Trips posted a video about one of the most dangerous stretches of road in the US: a sliver of Wyoming’s portion of Interstate 80.



I-80 runs from San Francisco to Teaneck, New Jersey. The Wyoming section runs across the southern part of the state and goes through Uinta, Sweetwater, Carbon, Albany, and Laramie counties.

“Wind gusts were 60mph+ when we drove it and the Subaru was feeling it,” the video creator said in the comments.

Some people in the comments recounted their horror stories.

“My wife and I spun off around there due to the winds and back ice on the road. Super sketch,” Jake Burchett commented.

“Hey I live in Rawlins! Its not that bad lol and when the wind gets too bad the trucks have to lay down and take a nap. It’s fine, we’re fine,” Jeremiah Rutherford commented.

According to Freight Waves, a news outlet about the freight industry, the National Weather Service (NWS) office in Cheyenne said the winds reach an average of 35 to 40 miles per hour. According to Geotag’s 2017, I-80 in Wyoming is the eighth most dangerous highway in America, with an estimated 175 crashes and 207 fatalities in the past decade with an average of 17 fatal crashes a year. It’s not just the Wyoming portions, either — I-80 is also the deadliest highway in the states of Nebraska and Iowa.

Matador's Newsletter
Subscribe for exclusive city guides, travel videos, trip giveaways and more!

Your Name
Your Email
Sign Up
By Signing Up, I agree to the Terms and Privacy Policy.
So the next time you decide to head out on a road trip, be safe and be sure to check the conditions before heading out. "
